0
Initial tests

1
What is the difference between positive and negative MOS transistors? (what turns them on, what they carry, how they're drawn)
10
Positive (p-type) teansistors are turned on by Vss charge, carry Vdd charge, and are drawn with a bubble. Negative (n-type) transistors are turned on by Vdd charge, carry Vss charge, and are drawn without. N-types are manufactured to have more electrons, while P-types have "holes", a lack of electron.   

2
What is the difference between a Moore and a Mealy Machine?
20
A Moore Machine emits a value based on what state it's in. A Mealy Machine emits a value based on how it transitions.

3
What is the difference between a wordline and bitline signal in a SRAM cell?
30
The Wordline controls access to the stored value, the bitline reads/writes the stored value.

0
Week 1

4
What are the natural terms for the following logical operators: Negation, Complement, Conjunction, Disjunction, Exclusive Disjunction, Implication, Equivalence? 
40
Negation and Compliment are both NOT. Conjunction is AND, disjunction is OR,exc. disjunction is XOR. Implication and equivalence are already natural terms for it, so remember that implication: notA or B, and equivalence is (not A or B) and (not B or A), which can be thought of more simply as "not xor". 

5
How do you translate a truth table into Disjunctive Normal Form? 
50
For each 1 in the output column, AND all the values that produce it, then bracket this statement. then OR all your brackets. 

6
How do you translate a truth table into Conjunctive Normal Form?
60
For each 0 in the output column, AND all the values that produce it, then bracket that statement. Then NOT all your brackets, and then AND them. then use De Morgan's laws to make your brackets contain only OR statements. 

7
What are De Morgan's laws?
70
NOT(A and B) is equivalent to (NOTA or NOTB). NOT(A or B) is equivalent to (NOTA and NOTB).

8
What is the principle of distributivity?
80
||(A and B) or (A and C) = A and (B or C) || (A or B) and (A or C) = A or (Band C) || 

9
What's the shortcut to counting binary-reflected Gray code? Wnere would you use it?
90
In binary, start with all bits at zero and flip the right-most bit that produces a previously unseen combination. You use this when numbering rows and colums in Karnaugh maps.

11
An AND gate with a bubbled output is equal to what? An OR gate with a bubbled output is equal to what? 
110
An AND gate with a bubbled output is equal to an OR gate with each input bubbled. An OR gate with a bubbled outputis equal to an AND gate with each input bubbled. 

12
How do you make an OR gate out of NAND gates? 
120
(A NAND A) NAND (B NAND B)

13
How do you make a NOR gate out of NAND gates? 
130
((A NAND A) NAND (B NAND B)) NANDed with itself


14
How do you make a XOR gate out of NAND gates?
140
Assume C = A NAND B. (A NAND C) NAND (B NAND C). 

0
Week 2 - Representing Numbers

15
How would you use hexadecimal to write out a long binary number?
150
Divide the binary number into 4 bit units, and represent each unit as a single hexadecimal digit (i.e: 1011 = eleven = b). This is possible because the 5th binary digit refers to the number of 16s.   

16
How would you use octal to write out a long binary number?
160
Divide the binary number into 3 bit unites, and represent each unit as a single octal digit (i.e., 111 = 7). This is possible because the 4th binary digit refers to the number of 8s. 

17
How would you convert between Decimal, Hexadecimal and Octal Base numbers?
170
Convert to binary and then convert to the target base, remembering that when converting to and from octal or hexadecimal, you can treat each digit as a three or four bit binary number respectively

18
If you're working in base N, what are the number of possible values you can store in D digits?
180
N to the power of D

19
What does a half adder output and input, and how do you make one? 
190
It takes two 1 digit binary numbers, A and B, adds them, and outputs the result as two digits. It calculates the MSB from (A and B), and the LSB from (A xor B). 

21
What does a full adder output and input, and how do you make one?
210
It adds together three 1 digit binary numbers, A, B and C_in, and outputs the result as two digits. The MSB, generally called C_out, is ((A and B) or (C_in and (A xor B)). The LSB, generally called S, is (A xor B xor C_in). 

22
What is a ripple-carry adder and how do you make one? 
220
A ripple-carry adder is a chain of full adders, where each outputs their S as a single bit, and passes their C_out to be the C_in of the next full adder in the chain. It's also a type of snake that brings water, but the liberal media doesn't want you to know that. 

23
What is Signed Magnitude representation? Why is it not used very often?
230
A binary representation of a number where the MSB represents the sign instead of a number. It's unpopular because it can represent zero as either 0000 or 1000, which is wasteful

24
What is 1s Complement? Why is it not used very often?
240
A binary representation of a number which uses one extra bit and then NOTs the number to communicate that it is a negative value. It's unpopular because it can represent zero as either 0000 or 1111, which is both wasteful and arithemtically problematic (as 1111+1 = 0000 plus an overflow, meaning that 0+1 = 0).

25
What is 2s complement? Why is it the favoured way of representing signed numbers in modern computing?
250
It's a binary representation of a number where the MSB represents its usual value times -1. It's popular because unlike other ways of representing a signed number, there is no "-0", so it frees up a value. 

26
How do you convert a binary number to it own negative value in 2s complement?
260
NOT it and then add 1. 

27
What are the 6 control bits of a Hack ALU?
270
ZX(zeroes the x signal), ZY (zeroes the y signal), NX (NOTs the X signal), NY (NOTs the y signal), NO (NOTs the output) and f, where f=0 ANDs the input signals and f=1 ADDs them. 

28
What is logx(y)?
280
the amount you have to raise x to in order to get y. So log2(8) = 3.

29
How many control bits do you need for a multiplexer or demultiplexer to choose between N inputs? 
290
log2(N) 

31
What is the difference between NOTting and knotting?
310
Don't you fucking dare. 

0
Week 3

32
What does an R-S latch do?
320
It takes two imputs, R' and S'. These are active-low. When R' is activated, output Q is set to 0 and stays that way until S' is next activated. When S' is activated, Q is set to 1 and stays that way until R' is next activated. 

33
What does active low vs active high mean?
330
"Active low" in a sequential circuit means it is activated by something going from 1 to 0, and active high is the opposite. 

34
How do you make an R-S latch? 
340
Use two NAND gates, which I will here call A and B. A is (S' NAND B), and B is (R' NAND A). The output of A, in addition to being fed into B, is Q, while the output of B is Q'.

35
What does a D latch do?
350
It takes input signals en and D. When en is high, it outputs D, and otherwise it holds the output. (In past papers, an "active high" D-latch has behaved this way, although this is all I will say on whether D latches are strictly active low or active high)

36
How do we build a D latch?
360
Start with an R-S latch. S' is (en nand D), R' is fed by (en nand notD).

37 
What is a D flip-flop?
370
Takes an input, D, and an enable signal (usually a clock). When the enable signal is activated, output Q is equal to D, and holds that until enable is next activated.

38
How do you make a negative triggered D flip-flop?
380
You use two D latches, a "leader" or "primary" and a "follower" or "secondary", with the output for the leader being the D-input for the follower. They both run off the same enable signal, but the signal is NOTted going into the follower. 

39
How do you make a positive triggered D flip-flop?
390
Two D latches, a "leader" or "primary" and a "follower" or "secondary", with the output from the leader being the D-input for the folloewr. The enable signal is NOTted on its way to the leader, then split off and NOTted again for the follower.

41
What is, in principle, the difference between a latch and a flip flop?
410
A latch is level-triggered and a flip-flop is edge triggered. 

42
How long does the gap between rising edges on a CLK signal need to be?
420
It has to be as long as the maximum propagation delay.

43
What are the SI unit prefixes in order low to high for when ten is raised to a positive exponent, and what interval does that exponent increase in between each one? 
430
Kilo, Mega, Giga, Tera, Peta. It increases by 3 each time (so a Kilo is 10^3, Mega is 10^6, and Peta is 10^15, etc).

44
What are the SI unit prefixes in order from high to low for when ten is raised to a negative exponent, and what interval does that exponent decrease by between each one?
440
Milli, Micro, Nano, Pico. It decreases by 3 each time (so Milli is 10^-3, Micro is 10^-6, Pico is 10^-12, etc).

45
What is a D register?
450
A D register has one output, "out", and two inputs, "load", and "in", plus a clock circut. On a rising clock edge, if "load" is high,  "out" is equal to "in". Otherwise, "out" holds its previous value. 

46
How do we build a D register?
460
We use a 2-input multiplexer and a D flipflop. The multiplexer feeds the D signal for the input, while the clock feeds its enable signal. The control bit of the multiplexer is our "load" input, and the two signals that the multiplexer chooses between are a) our "in" input and b) the output of the whole system. 

47
What is a "bus", in a computer architecture context? 
470
A bus is a multi-bit binary wire - essentially it's a whole bunch of wires together that we are conceputalising as a single wire. 

48
What is a "word", in the context of computer memory?
480
A word is a binary number stored by a register. We think of words having a "word size" in bits. 

49
What is an "address", in the context of computer memory? 
490
Since computer memory behaves like a collection of registers, we differentiate between these registers by giving each one a different "address". The output of a memory circuit always gives the output of a register with a given adress, and changing this is immmediate; it doesn't happen on a clock tick.

51
What is "address space", in the context of computer memory?
510
Address space is the set of all valid addresses in a memory circuit.

52
What is a "cell", in the context of computer memory?
520
A cell is single 1 bit register within a larger memory circuit. 

53
What is "volatile" memory?
530
Memory that only keeps information as long as the system is supplied with power. 

54
What is ROM, and when might it be used?
540
ROM is "Read Only Memory". Writing to it physically alters the chip and only happens once. The advantage to this is that it has faster access times and lower cost than other non-volatile memory, so it is used in, for example, non-upgradeable firmware.

55
What type of memory makes up most modern non-volatile memory?
550
Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM, or "EEPROM", which is a family of memory technologies including flash memory. EEPROM can be electronically erased and re-written, although this happens more slowly than ram. 

56
What is SRAM?
560
SRAM is "static RAM", and is the type of RAM we've been building, though we're making a very inefficient form of it. Modern SRAM circuits need only 4 to 6 transistors.

57
What is DRAM?
570
DRAM is "Dynamic RAM." It works very differently from RAM as we've designed it, and has to be manually refreshed every few ms, and whenever it is read to. This makes it much slower than SRAM. However it is cheaper and higher capacity.

58
What is SDRAM?
580
SDRAM is "synchronised dynamic RAM", and is DRAM that works on a clock circuit. It is an example of the treacherous naming conventions of computer science, as one might think that it is some sort of hybrid between SRAM and DRAM - it is nothing to do with SRAM at all.

59
What is DDR?
590
DDR stands for "Double Data Rate", and DDR1-5 are protocols for data storage to and from DRAM. They are not fundamentally different technologies to it.

61
For data storage in bytes, how do the SI units work? 
610
Data storage SI units raise 2 to the power of a multiple of ten. A kilobyte is 2 to the 10 bytes, a megabite is 2 to the 20 bytes, a gigabyte is 2 to the 30 bites, a terabite is 2 to the 40 bytes, and a petabyte is 2 to the 50 bytes. These are somebimes respectively referred to as kibi, mebi, gibi, tebi and pebibytes. 

62
How do you calculate a log in base 2 if your calculator only works in log base b?
620
log2(x) = logb(x)/logb(2). 

63
True or false: logb(x) grows faster than x? How is the answer to this useful?
630
False! Logb(x) grows much slower than x as x increases. If log2(n) >= 50, than n >= a petabyte. Algorithms you'll see i ncode run on inputs of size n, wth time tht grows with log2(n).

0
Week 4

64
What is a counter? 
640
A counter stores and outputs a binary value that goes up by 1 on a rising edge. It takes a single input, reset, which puts the value on the counter to 0 if reset is set to 1 on a rising edge. 

65
How do we build a counter?
650
A register's Q signal goes to both our output and to an adder, which is also fed by a constant 1 signal. The output of this adder is fed into a multiplexer, along with a constant 0 signal. The control bit that chooses between these is our input. 

66
What is a one-shot, and when is it useful?
660
A one-shot has one input and one output (plus a clock). When input = 1, output = 1 for exactly one clock cycle, then reverts to 0. This happens regardless of what is happening to the input during that time. The system resets when output returns to 0. It's useful for technology activated by button presses, as a button press usually lasts for lots of clock cycles. 

67
What do we mean in terms of actual electrical signals when we say "0" and "1"? How do we represent this?
670
0 is a small range of low-voltage signals, called Vss. 1 is a range of higher voltage singals, called Vdd. The exact range of Vdd has changed over time as transistors have become more efficient, but was traditionally around 5 volts. 

68
What is a MOSFET (or MOS) transistor?
680
Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors are made from silicon. They are one of two main transistor types along with BJTs (bipolar junction transistors). Silicon is a semiconductor, and so the conditions under which a MOSFET will tramsit charge can be altered via adding impurities during manufacturing. 

69
What is CMOS? 
690
CMOS stands for complementary metal-oxide semiconductor. CMOS technology connects a common source (either Vdd or Vss) to p and n type MOS transistors to create not-gates, which can be interlaced to create NAND and NOR gates. 

71
How do you create a NOR gate out of MOS transistors?
710
Input signal A connects to a p-type and n-type transistor, Ap and An. Input signal B does the same - Bp and Bn. Ap and Bp are connected to Vdd in series, meaning that if either A OR B are connected to Vdd, Vdd is cut off from the circuit. An and Bn are connected to Vss in parallel, meaning that as long as at least one of A or B is connected to Vdd, Vss will flow. Output Q therefore only outputs Vdd if both A and B are connected to Vss. 

72
How do you create a NAND gate out of transistors?
720
Input signal A connects to a p-type and n-type transistor, Ap and An. Input signal B does the same - Bp and Bn. Ap and Bp are connected to the Vdd signal in parallel, meaning that as long as A or B is connected to Vss, output q will be positive. Vss is connected to the output via An and Bn in series, meaning that Q can only transmit Vss if A and B are both connected to Vdd. 

73
Why are NAND gates the standard rather than NOR gates, since both are functionally complete?
730
P-type transistors are slower than n-type transistors, and transistors in series are slower than transistors in parallel. This means Vdd moves faster through a NAND gate, as the slow p-type transistors are in parallel. 

74
What is a circuit's "critical path"?
740
The path between the input and the output that has the longest delay. 

75
How do you construct SRAM out of transistors?
750
Assume positive transistors Ap and Bp and negatives An and Bn. Wire the negatives in parallel to Vss and vice versa, then wire Ap's output to An's, and likewise for Bp and Bn. We'll call the zones created between these transistors Q and Q' respectively. Take two n-type transistors, W1 and W2. Connect the output of W1 to the Q wire and the switches for Bp and Bn, and vice versa for W2. Both W1 and W2 are switched by the same "Wordline" input, and W1 connects to bitline, while "W2" connects to bitline'. 

76
How do you construct DRAM? 
760
Connect the capacitor to Vss and to an n-type transistor that connects it to the bitline. Connect the wordline to the switch of that transistor. 

77
What are the latency comparisons between SRAM, DRAM and Flip-Flops? How do they compare in terms of cost to build and power to run?
770
Flip flops make data available instantly at the output, so have very low latency, but require 12-30 transistors to build, which is expensive and power consumption. SRAM latency is a bit longer, but it only requires 4 to 6 transistors. DRAM has even more latency because it must wait for charge to move from the capacitor to the bitline, but only requires 1 transistor plus a capacitor.

78
What is 1 hertz?
780
1 hertz = 1 cycle per second.
